README.md, before:

# Angular modules for DDP

## An opinion on auto-upgrading
Semantic versioning is a nice idea; auto-upgrading is bad.  _Please strip out all auto-upgrade flags--`~` and `^`--from
`package.json`._  It's possible that we'll make an exception for this for `peerDependencies` in our modules, depending
on how much we end up trusting angular's interpretation of semvar, but for top-level `package.json`, we _do not auto upgrade_
because _doing so leads to unreproducible builds_.

## General layout
This repo contains source for DDP's Angular SDK.  Inside the repo, we have module code, tests, and an angular
app.  The app itself serves only demonstration and testing purposes; in the real world, DDP app code lives
in its own repo and loads the modules from this repo via `package.json` imports.

Each released version of the SDK corresponds to a tag.  When working on an upcoming release, we use a branch
 for that release.  Once we deploy the release to artifactory, we put a tag into that release so that 1) it's crystal clear what
 source code was used for what npm version and 2) we maintain clarity (and some freedom) within branches.
 
Within the `app` directory, we setup independent angular modules.  With this approach, we can kick the tires
on new modules in the context of a representative (if make believe) app.  Each module is deployed to npm/artifactory as its own thing under the `@ddp` _scope_. 

## Building
```shell
nvm use v7.9.0
npm install
```

## Backend-less UI Tests
These tests will pop open a chome browser and run tests via karma.  To set breakpoints in the angular ts code or in the tests
themselves, navigate to `webpack://./src/app` in chrome dev tools and use chrome debugger.  Yes, debugging of _typescript_
works!
```shell
ng test
```


## Artifactory setup
We will deploy our modules to [our local artifactory](https://broadinstitute.jfrog.io/broadinstitute).  To do this, you must
have an artifactory account.  If you don't have one, ping Zim.  Once your artifactory account is setup, you have to configure
your `.npmrc` to selectively look in artifactory for `@ddp`-scoped artifacts, while looking in the usual npm repo for everything else.

### .npmrc setup
Run this command, setting your username and password. 
```shell
curl -u "[username:pwd]"  https://broadinstitute.jfrog.io/broadinstitute/api/npm/npm-local/auth/ddp
```

This should output something like:
```shell
@ddp:registry=https://broadinstitute.jfrog.io/broadinstitute/api/npm/npm-local/
//broadinstitute.jfrog.io/broadinstitute/api/npm/npm-local/:_password=[blah]
//broadinstitute.jfrog.io/broadinstitute/api/npm/npm-local/:username=[your user]
//broadinstitute.jfrog.io/broadinstitute/api/npm/npm-local/:email=[your email]
//broadinstitute.jfrog.io/broadinstitute/api/npm/npm-local/:always-auth=true
```

Copy paste that into `~.nprmrc`.

## Deploying a module to artifactory
Each module should exist in its own directory so that the module can be built and deployed as its own thing.  The
`package.json` exists (in slightly different forms) both at the module level and in the `dist` directory; `rollup.config.js`
and `tsconfig.json` also exist in each module directory as well.  There is room for improvement in this area in terms of DRY-ness.  Setting things
up this way came about based largely on theses posts:
* http://blog.mgechev.com/2017/01/21/distributing-an-angular-library-aot-ngc-types/
* https://medium.com/@cyrilletuzi/how-to-build-and-publish-an-angular-module-7ad19c0b4464
* https://github.com/rollup/rollup/wiki/Troubleshooting#treating-module-as-external-dependency

From within a module directory:
```shell
npm run build
cd dist
npm publish
```

Commit message:

Added a few words on how to walk the line between easy day-to-day development and not-so-easy per-module deployment to artifactory/npm.

README.md, after:

# Angular modules for DDP

## An opinion on auto-upgrading
Semantic versioning is a nice idea; auto-upgrading is bad.  _Please strip out all auto-upgrade flags--`~` and `^`--from
`package.json`._  It's possible that we'll make an exception for this for `peerDependencies` in our modules, depending
on how much we end up trusting angular's interpretation of semvar, but for top-level `package.json`, we _do not auto upgrade_
because _doing so leads to unreproducible builds_.

## General layout
This repo contains source for DDP's Angular SDK.  Inside the repo, we have module code, tests, and an angular
app.  The app itself serves only demonstration and testing purposes; in the real world, DDP app code lives
in its own repo and loads the modules from this repo via `package.json` imports.

Each released version of the SDK corresponds to a tag.  When working on an upcoming release, we use a branch
 for that release.  Once we deploy the release to artifactory, we put a tag into that release so that 1) it's crystal clear what
 source code was used for what npm version and 2) we maintain clarity (and some freedom) within branches.
 
Within the `app` directory, we setup independent angular modules.  With this approach, we can kick the tires
on new modules in the context of a representative (if make believe) app.  Each module is deployed to npm/artifactory as its own thing under the `@ddp` _scope_. 

## Building
```shell
nvm use v7.9.0
npm install
```

## Backend-less UI Tests
These tests will pop open a chome browser and run tests via karma.  To set breakpoints in the angular ts code or in the tests
themselves, navigate to `webpack://./src/app` in chrome dev tools and use chrome debugger.  Yes, debugging of _typescript_
works!
```shell
ng test
```


## Artifactory setup
We will deploy our modules to [our local artifactory](https://broadinstitute.jfrog.io/broadinstitute).  To do this, you must
have an artifactory account.  If you don't have one, ping Zim.  Once your artifactory account is setup, you have to configure
your `.npmrc` to selectively look in artifactory for `@ddp`-scoped artifacts, while looking in the usual npm repo for everything else.

### .npmrc setup
Run this command, setting your username and password. 
```shell
curl -u "[username:pwd]"  https://broadinstitute.jfrog.io/broadinstitute/api/npm/npm-local/auth/ddp
```

This should output something like:
```shell
@ddp:registry=https://broadinstitute.jfrog.io/broadinstitute/api/npm/npm-local/
//broadinstitute.jfrog.io/broadinstitute/api/npm/npm-local/:_password=[blah]
//broadinstitute.jfrog.io/broadinstitute/api/npm/npm-local/:username=[your user]
//broadinstitute.jfrog.io/broadinstitute/api/npm/npm-local/:email=[your email]
//broadinstitute.jfrog.io/broadinstitute/api/npm/npm-local/:always-auth=true
```

Copy paste that into `~.nprmrc`.

## Deploying a module to artifactory
Each module should exist in its own directory so that the module can be built and deployed as its own thing.  The
`package.json` exists (in slightly different forms) both at the module level and in the `dist` directory; `rollup.config.js`
and `tsconfig.json` also exist in each module directory as well.  There is room for improvement in this area in terms of DRY-ness.  Setting things
up this way came about based largely on theses posts:
* http://blog.mgechev.com/2017/01/21/distributing-an-angular-library-aot-ngc-types/
* https://medium.com/@cyrilletuzi/how-to-build-and-publish-an-angular-module-7ad19c0b4464
* https://github.com/rollup/rollup/wiki/Troubleshooting#treating-module-as-external-dependency

In order to keep developer velocity high, as we write new modules, we can use relative dependencies day-to-day like so:

`import {UmbrellaConfig} from "../umbrella-config/umbrella-config";`

When it comes time to deploy, we'll need to branch and changes these dependencies to something like:

`import {UmbrellaConfig} from "@ddp/umbrella-config/umbrella-config";`

And we'll also need to expand the `peerDependencies` entries for each module.

And then, from within each module directory:
```shell
npm run build
cd dist
npm publish
```

Bonus points to whoever can automate this process so that our artifactory/npm deployments aren't so painful!
